_pages/07_object.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Object
subtitle: A collection of name/value pairs.
categories: data types
permalink: /object/
---

Any value that isn't simply a string, number, Boolean, null, undefined, or
Symbol is an object.

Create an object with a pair of curly braces (`{}`).

``` js
var batman = {};
```

Objects consist of **properties** and **methods**. Properties are what the
object *is*, and methods are what the object *does*. Returning to the book
analogy, properties are like nouns and adjectives, and methods are like verbs.

**Property**       | **Method**
------------       | ----------
`batman.firstName` | `batman.fight()`
`batman.location`  | `batman.jump()`

We can apply some properties to the `batman` object using name/value pairs
(sometimes referred to as *key/value* pairs). They will be comma-separated and
written as `propertyName: propertyValue`.

``` js
var batman = {
  firstName: "Bruce",  // string
  lastName: "Wayne",
  location: "Gotham",
  introduced: 1939,    // number
  billionaire: true,   // boolean
  weakness: null,      // null
};
```

As you can see, we can apply any primitive data type as a value in an object. We
can retrieve an individual value with a dot (`.`).

``` js
batman.firstName; // returns "Bruce", a string
```

We can also retrieve the value with bracket notation.

``` js
batman["firstName"]; // returns "Bruce"
```

A JavaScript property name must be a valid JavaScript string or numeric literal.
If the name begins with a number, has a space or hypen, then it must be accessed
using the bracket notation. [Read: MDN][1]

``` js
batman.secret identity;     // invalid
batman["Secret Identity"];  // valid
```

A method performs an action. Here is a simple example.

``` js
var batman = {
  firstName: "Bruce",
  lastName: "Wayne",
  secretIdentity: function() { // method
    return this.firstName + " " + this.lastName;
  },
};
```

Instead of a simple data type as the value, I have a `function`. The `function`
is concatenating `firstName` and `lastName` for `this` object and returning the
result. In the example, `this` is the same as `batman` because it's inside the
object (`{}`).

``` js
batman.secretIdentity(); // returns "Bruce Wayne", a concatenation of two properties
```

A method is indicated by parentheses. (`()`).

> **Note:** - the last item in a list of objects does not end in a comma.

### Arrays

An **array** stores a list into a single variable.

Since an array contains more than one value, it's a type of object. Create an
array with a pair of straight braces (`[]`).

``` js
var ninjaTurtles = [];
```

Arrays do not contain name/value pairs.

``` js
var ninjaTurtles = [
  "Leonardo",
  "Michelangelo",
  "Raphael",
  "Donatello",
];
```

You can get an individual value by referencing the `index` of the array. In
programming, counting starts at zero, so the first item in a list will always
be `[0]`.

``` js
var leader = ninjaTurtles[0]; // assigns "Leonardo" to the leader variable
```

You can see how many items are in an array with `length`.

``` js
ninjaTurtles.length; // returns 4
```

[1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Working_with_Objects#Objects_and_properties

Commit message:

content -- Δ definition to conform with specs

_pages/07_object.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Object
subtitle: A collection of name/value pairs.
categories: data types
permalink: /object/
---

Any value that isn't simply a string, number, Boolean, null, undefined, or
Symbol is an object.

Create an object with a pair of curly braces (`{}`).

``` js
var batman = {};
```

Objects are collections of *properties*, which are name-value pairs. This means
that we use a name to access a value. The key can be any valid JavaScript
string, while the value can be any valid JavaScript type or object, including
arrays, maps, and functions. Also, properties with functions as values are
called *methods*.

**Property**       | **Method**
------------       | ----------
`batman.firstName` | `batman.fight()`
`batman.location`  | `batman.jump()`

We can apply some properties to the `batman` object using name-value pairs
(sometimes referred to as *key-value* pairs). They will be comma-separated and
written as `propertyName: propertyValue`.

``` js
var batman = {
  firstName: "Bruce",  // string
  lastName: "Wayne",
  location: "Gotham",
  introduced: 1939,    // number
  billionaire: true,   // boolean
  weakness: null,      // null
};
```

As you can see, we can apply any primitive data type as a value in an object. We
can retrieve an individual value with a dot (`.`).

``` js
batman.firstName; // returns "Bruce", a string
```

We can also retrieve the value with bracket notation.

``` js
batman["firstName"]; // returns "Bruce"
```

A JavaScript property name must be a valid JavaScript string or numeric literal.
If the name begins with a number, has a space or hypen, then it must be accessed
using the bracket notation. [Read: MDN][1]

``` js
batman.secret identity;     // invalid
batman["Secret Identity"];  // valid
```

A method performs an action. Here is a simple example.

``` js
var batman = {
  firstName: "Bruce",
  lastName: "Wayne",
  secretIdentity: function() { // method
    return this.firstName + " " + this.lastName;
  },
};
```

Instead of a simple data type as the value, I have a `function`. The `function`
is concatenating `firstName` and `lastName` for `this` object and returning the
result. In the example, `this` is the same as `batman` because it's inside the
object (`{}`).

``` js
batman.secretIdentity(); // returns "Bruce Wayne", a concatenation of two properties
```

A method is indicated by parentheses. (`()`).

> **Note:** - the last item in a list of objects does not end in a comma.

### Arrays

An **array** stores a list into a single variable.

Since an array contains more than one value, it's a type of object. Create an
array with a pair of straight braces (`[]`).

``` js
var ninjaTurtles = [];
```

Arrays do not contain name/value pairs.

``` js
var ninjaTurtles = [
  "Leonardo",
  "Michelangelo",
  "Raphael",
  "Donatello",
];
```

You can get an individual value by referencing the `index` of the array. In
programming, counting starts at zero, so the first item in a list will always
be `[0]`.

``` js
var leader = ninjaTurtles[0]; // assigns "Leonardo" to the leader variable
```

You can see how many items are in an array with `length`.

``` js
ninjaTurtles.length; // returns 4
```

[1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Working_with_Objects#Objects_and_properties
